# Zotero notes and annotations for 2026-06-29

## Kriss (2026)

> The person you are now might be the prologue to someone entirely different and dramatically worse. You might lose all of your interests and personality and end up going into politics

> When I was nineteen I got three words from the Futurist Manifesto tattooed on my body. The line goes ‘We are not old, our hearts are not tired, for they are nourished by fire, hatred, and speed.’ There are still three blobs resembling the words fuoco, odio, and velocità on my ribs. I got them because I wanted to punish my future self for having been stupid enough to get old, and it worked. Look at me now. I’ve slowed down, my fire’s dimming, and instead of the hatred that should be fizzing through my veins I’m full of dumb sympathetic love for Keir Starmer, of all people. The gormless image of our helplessness in time.

## Wang & Gewirtz (2026). The New York Times

> First, the heads of A.I. labs need to stop their doom trolling. It makes little sense to make panicked claims about the destructive potential of A.I. without a plan to work with the government to address those risks.

## Speaking Up: Who Is, and Who Isn't

> Now let’s get to a group of people who (as far as I can tell) have said nothing at all. That would be the CEOs of the major biopharma companies. I have searched but so far found no public statements about the OMB’s proposed attack on US science funding, which on the face of it might seem a bit odd, since (1) the great majority of the employees at these companies came through that exact funding system at some point in their careers, and (2) since the industry depends on the basic science research funded this way to make its own advances in applied and clinical applications.

