# Zotero notes and annotations for 2026-06-25

## Antibody-Drug Conjugates: Not Quite Worked Out Yet

> But all this is illustrating that we still don’t know enough about ADCs in general to pick winners. It’s frustrating - all of these (on paper) look like solid candidates that should hit these tumor types in ways that they have never been hit before. But they keep coming back as no better than old generic chemotherapy drugs - and until we know why that is, we’re going to have to keep crossing our fingers every time another such agent goes into human trials.

## Episode 51: Anthony Aguirre on Cosmology, Zen, Entropy, and Information – Sean Carroll

> 0:07:03 AA: And here it goes, it says, "Right now, as you read this, a baby in India is taking its first breath and an old woman, her last. A young woman and her lover sharing their first kiss. Lightning flashes across a dark sky. The wind blows through the hair of a solitary hiker in the Sahara desert. A satellite is seeing the sun rise above the Earth. A hurricane is blowing endlessly through the clouds of Jupiter. Two rocks are colliding, just now, in the third ring of Saturn. The New Year is arising on a planet around a star in our galaxy. Perhaps the world has inhabitants who are celebrating. Our galaxy moves about 100 miles closer to our neighbor Andromeda, toward their collision and union billions of years from now. A star in a distant galaxy ignites a titanic supernova explosion that ends its hundred-million-year lifetime. At the same time, hundreds of new stars first ignite. The observable universe adds enough space for a hundred new galaxies. All of this is happening, this very second, across the universe, right now. And yet this 'right now across the universe' does not exist."
> 
> 0:08:08 SC: As a straightforward Western scientist I want you to say, "What do you mean it does not exist?"
> 
> 0:08:12 AA: It does not exist. So the point of this one, is...
> 
> 0:08:15 SC: I do you know what you mean, of course, but for...
> 
> 0:08:16 AA: You know what I mean, of course. But the point of this... So we learned from Einstein's special relativity, that this idea that there is a single moment of now across the universe, a single meaningful time at which you say, "This was the past before this time and it is the future after this time," that that exists for an individual here and now observer, like you experience a past and a future and a now. But such a thing doesn't have an objective existence across the universe. That's what relativity tells us, is that if I attribute some moment of now spread out in space, someone else can attribute an equally valid one spread out in space that is different from the one that I have.
> 
> 0:09:01 AA: And so there's a lot of reasoning behind that and where that truth arises from relativity. But I think the point here in telling it that way, was to try to really bring that into that relativity truth, which physicists pretty much all accept now and is sort of part of the standard canon of physics, into its violent clash with your intuition, because your intuition is just screaming at you, like even if something's far away, it either hasn't happened or it has happened, that there is a truth of the matter. And by putting yourself in that mind of envisioning all of these things happening at farther and farther distances, I think it sets up how very strange that really is. Even as a physicist, you get used to thinking, oh, there's no absolute now, and that's fine, and you know what the equations are in everything, but when you really think about it, that is really, really very strange.

## (2018). Oxford University Press

> As he put it, ‘the progress of biology . . . has probably been checked by the uncritical assumption of half-truths. If science is not to degenerate into a medley of ad hoc hypotheses, it must become philosophical and must enter upon a thorough criticism of its own foundations’ (Whitehead 1925: 25). The organicists adopted this as a rallying cry in promoting their cause: to develop a new philosophy of biology that would emancipate their science from both the physico-chemical reductionism of mechanicism and the obscurantist holism of vitalism in coming to terms with life’s dynamic, systemic, and purposive character.5

> we take nature to be constituted by processes all the way down.

Turtles all the way down

> The topic of this chapter is cancer, and the relevance of the above remarks to this topic should be obvious. It is generally supposed that the key to understanding cancer is to find out what causes it. What is it that interacts with a healthy individual organism to initiate the eventually fatal neoplastic process? From a processual perspective, on the other hand, one might rather ask, why do organisms generally not develop neoplasms?

## Dwork et al. (2015). Science

> Misapplication of statistical data analysis is a common cause of spurious discoveries in scientific research.

This causes such great anxiety within the compuational biology field. Are we only chasing patterns in the wind?

> the practice of data analysis in scientific research is, by nature, an adaptive process in which new analyses are chosen on the basis of data exploration and previous analyses of the same data.

While flexibility and adaptivity are strengths, p-hacking is problematic. It's important to draw those distinctions.

> If the analyst uses the outcome of the validation to select an additional data statistic, that statistic is no longer independent of the holdout data, and further use of the holdout set for validation can lead to incorrect statistical inference. To preserve statistical validity, the only known safe approach is to collect new data for a fresh holdout set.

This builds the argument for prospective analysis.

> Because the holdout was drawn from the same data distribution independently of the statistic, standard statistical inference procedures can safely be used.

Why is this important? Or rather, this does not address generalizability. Those tests rely, at least to some degree, on the test set being OOD.

> In this work we describe a general method, together with a specific instantiation for reusing a holdout set while maintaining the statistical guarantees of fresh data. The analyst is given unfettered access to the training data set but can only access the holdout set via an algorithm (equivalently, a mechanism) that allows the analyst to validate statistics on the holdout set.

What is the mechanism here? The analogy in modern parlance could be the large pre-training compendia for foundation models and the fine-tuning test sets.

> Freedman’s classical experiment, which demonstrated the dangers of performing variable selection and regression on the same data (18). The experiment is commonly referred to as “Freedman’s paradox” due to the surprisingly strong effect on the validity of the results.

Often violated by machine learning approaches in the past.

> Our approach is based on the central insight of the differentially private data analysis: it is possible to learn statistical properties of a dataset while controlling the amount of information “leaked” about any dataset element.

> In a nutshell, the reusable holdout mechanism is simply this: access the holdout set only via a differentially private mechanism. The intuition is that if we can learn about the data set in aggregate while provably learning very little about any individual data element, then we can control the information leaked and thus prevent overfitting. More specifically, we introduce a new notion of maximum information that controls overfitting and can be bounded using differential privacy [for an overview, see section 1 of (17)]. We present an implementation of the reusable holdout, called Thresholdout, and show that it provably validates a large number of adaptively chosen statistics. We then use a simple classification algorithm on synthetic data to illustrate the properties of Thresholdout. The classifier produced by the algorithm overfits the data when the holdout set is reused naively but does not overfit if used with our reusable holdout.

